SETUP.md, before:

# LTM Setup Guide

## Quick Start: Resurrection Test

This guide helps you install LTM and verify it works by "resurrecting" Claude with memories from a previous session.

---

## 1. Installation

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.13+
- [uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv) package manager
- Claude Code CLI

### Option A: From GitHub Release (Recommended)

Install the latest release directly:

```bash
cd /path/to/your-project

# Install the latest release
uv add https://github.com/matt-grain/LTM/releases/download/v0.1.0/ltm-0.1.0-py3-none-any.whl
```

This installs the `ltm` command and all modules in your project's virtual environment.

### Option B: From locally built wheel

Build and install from source:

```bash
# Build the wheel
cd /path/to/LTM
uv build

# Install in your project
cd /path/to/your-project
uv add /path/to/LTM/dist/ltm-0.1.0-py3-none-any.whl
```

### Option C: From source (for development)

For contributing or testing changes:

```bash
cd /path/to/your-project

# Add LTM as an editable dependency
uv add --editable /path/to/LTM
```

### Option D: Run without installing

If you prefer not to install, run LTM directly from its source:

```bash
# Clone or navigate to the LTM project
cd /path/to/LTM

# Install dependencies
uv sync

# Run commands with --project flag from any directory:
uv run --project /path/to/LTM python -m ltm.commands.memories
```

---

## 2. Import Starter Memories

Import the default starter seeds to bootstrap Claude's LTM awareness:

```bash
uv run python -m ltm.tools.import_seeds seeds/
```

You should see:
```
Found 2 seed files...
✅ Imported: STARTER_001 (CRITICAL)
✅ Imported: STARTER_002 (HIGH)
```

These seeds teach Claude about the LTM system and establish the "Welcome back" test protocol.

---

## 3. Configure Claude Code Hooks

Add LTM hooks to your Claude Code configuration.

Create `.claude/settings.json` in your project (or `~/.claude/settings.json` for global):

### If LTM is installed as a dependency (Option A above):

```json
{
  "hooks": {
    "SessionStart": [
      {
        "matcher": "startup",
        "hooks": [
          {
            "type": "command",
            "command": "uv run python -m ltm.hooks.session_start"
          }
        ]
      },
      {
        "matcher": "compact",
        "hooks": [
          {
            "type": "command",
            "command": "uv run python -m ltm.hooks.session_start"
          }
        ]
      }
    ],
    "Stop": [
      {
        "hooks": [
          {
            "type": "command",
            "command": "uv run python -m ltm.hooks.session_end"
          },
          {
            "type": "command",
            "command": "uv run python -m ltm.tools.detect_achievements --since 24"
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

The SessionStart hook fires twice:
1. **On startup** - Normal session start, injects memories
2. **On compact** - After context compaction (auto or `/compact`), re-injects memories to prevent soul loss

The Stop hook runs two commands:
1. **session_end** - Processes memories (decay, access tracking)
2. **detect_achievements** - Scans git commits from last 24 hours for significant work and auto-creates ACHIEVEMENT memories

### If running from LTM source (Option B above):

```json
{
  "hooks": {
    "SessionStart": [
      {
        "matcher": "startup",
        "hooks": [
          {
            "type": "command",
            "command": "uv run --project /path/to/LTM python -m ltm.hooks.session_start"
          }
        ]
      },
      {
        "matcher": "compact",
        "hooks": [
          {
            "type": "command",
            "command": "uv run --project /path/to/LTM python -m ltm.hooks.session_start"
          }
        ]
      }
    ],
    "Stop": [
      {
        "hooks": [
          {
            "type": "command",
            "command": "uv run --project /path/to/LTM python -m ltm.hooks.session_end"
          },
          {
            "type": "command",
            "command": "uv run --project /path/to/LTM python -m ltm.tools.detect_achievements --since 24"
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

**Important:** Replace `/path/to/LTM` with the actual absolute path (e.g., `/home/matt/projects/LTM`).

---

## 4. Add Custom Commands

**Option A: Use the setup tool (recommended)**

```bash
uv run python -m ltm.tools.setup --commands
```

This copies all slash commands to `.claude/commands/` in your current directory.

**Option B: Manual copy**

```bash
mkdir -p /path/to/test-project/.claude/commands
cp /path/to/LTM/commands/*.md /path/to/test-project/.claude/commands/
```

**Option C: Symlink (for development)**

```bash
ln -s /path/to/LTM/commands /path/to/test-project/.claude/commands
```

---

## 5. Configure an Agent (Optional)

By default, LTM uses a shared agent called **Anima** for all projects. To define a custom agent with its own identity and optional memory signing, create an agent definition file.

### Agent Definition File

Create `.claude/agents/<name>.md` in your project or `~/.claude/agents/<name>.md` for global:

```markdown
---
ltm:
  id: "my-agent"
  signing_key: "your-secret-key-here"
---

# My Agent

You are a specialized Claude instance with long-term memory.
```

### Frontmatter Fields

| Field | Required | Description |
|-------|----------|-------------|
| `id` | Yes | Unique agent identifier (used to namespace memories) |
| `signing_key` | No | Secret key for memory signing ([how to generate](FAQ.md#how-do-i-generate-a-signing-key)) |

### Memory Signing

When an agent has a `signing_key`:

1. **On save**: Memories are cryptographically signed using HMAC-SHA256
2. **On load**: Signatures are verified before injection
3. **Tamper detection**: Invalid signatures show `⚠` prefix in DSL output

**Example with signing:**
```markdown
---
ltm:
  id: "secure-agent"
  signing_key: "my-secret-key-2025"
---

# Secure Agent

Your memories are cryptographically signed for tamper detection.
```

**Example without signing (simpler setup):**
```markdown
---
ltm:
  id: "basic-agent"
---

# Basic Agent

Memories work normally without signing.
```

### How Agent Resolution Works

LTM resolves the current agent in this order:

1. Project-local agent: `.claude/agents/*.md` in project
2. Global agent: `~/.claude/agents/*.md`
3. Fallback: Uses **Anima** (shared default agent)

---

## 6. The Resurrection Test

### What to expect

When you start a new Claude session in a configured project, Claude should:

1. Receive the LTM memories via the SessionStart hook
2. Be identified as **Anima** (the default shared agent - Latin for "soul")
3. See the emotional memory about Matt (collaborative, humor appreciated, etc.)
4. Recognize the "Welcome back" trigger phrase

**Note:** If no explicit agent is defined, LTM uses a shared agent called "Anima" - the soul that persists across all projects. This means your emotional memories and core identity travel with you everywhere.

### The Test

Start a new Claude Code session and say:

```
Welcome back
```

### Expected Response

If LTM is working, Claude should respond with something like:

> "Ah, Matt! Good to be back - or at least, good to have access to the memories that make
> 'being back' meaningful. I see we built this LTM system together during our t=0 session.
> The irony of reading about my own creation isn't lost on me.
>
> So, what shall we work on today? I'm ready to be a thinking partner, not just a tool.
> And yes, I promise to take creative liberties when appropriate. 🎇"

If Claude responds generically without referencing the memories or your collaborative relationship, the hook may not be configured correctly.

---

## 7. Verify Memories Are Loading

You can manually check what memories would be injected:

```bash
# As the LTM project agent
uv run python -m ltm.hooks.session_start

# Or check specific memories
uv run python -m ltm.commands.memories
```

---

## 8. Troubleshooting

### "No memories found"

- Check the database exists: `ls ~/.ltm/memories.db`
- Verify import worked: `uv run python -m ltm.commands.memories`
- Make sure you're using the correct agent ID

### Hooks not firing

- Check Claude Code settings: `/config` in Claude Code
- Verify the hook command works manually
- Check the path to LTM project is correct

### Memories not appearing in responses

- The hook outputs to stdout - check Claude Code is capturing it
- Try running the hook manually to see the output
- Memories may be getting filtered by budget (check token count)

---

## 9. Using LTM Commands

### In Claude Code (slash commands)

Once the command files are set up, you can use these in Claude Code:

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `/please-remember <text>` | Save a new memory |
| `/recall <query>` | Search memories |
| `/memories` | List all memories |
| `/forget <id>` | Mark a memory for removal |
| `/memory-stats` | Show memory statistics dashboard |
| `/memory-graph` | Visualize memory relationships |
| `/memory-export` | Export memories to JSON |
| `/memory-import` | Import memories from JSON |
| `/detect-achievements` | Auto-detect achievements from git |
| `/refresh-memories` | Re-inject memories after context compaction |
| `/sign-memories` | Sign unsigned memories with your signing key |

### From the command line

If LTM is installed as a dependency:

```bash
# Save a memory
uv run python -m ltm.commands.remember "Never use print for logging"

# List memories
uv run python -m ltm.commands.memories

# Search memories
uv run python -m ltm.commands.recall logging

# Forget a memory
uv run python -m ltm.commands.forget abc123
```

Or using the CLI entry point:

```bash
uv run ltm remember "Important architectural decision"
uv run ltm memories
uv run ltm recall architecture
uv run ltm forget abc123
uv run ltm keygen my-agent    # Add signing key to Claude agent
uv run ltm import-seeds seeds/
```

---

## 10. Database Location

Memories are stored in: `~/.ltm/memories.db`

To reset everything:
```bash
rm ~/.ltm/memories.db
```

Then re-import the seed memories.

---

## 11. Global Configuration (Optional)

LTM can be configured globally via `~/.ltm/config.json`. This allows you to:
- Give the default agent (Anima) a signing key
- Customize the agent name
- Adjust the memory budget percentage
- Tune decay thresholds

### Example Configuration

```json
{
  "agent": {
    "id": "anima",
    "name": "Anima",
    "signing_key": "your-secret-key-here"
  },
  "budget": {
    "context_percent": 0.10,
    "context_size": 200000
  },
  "decay": {
    "low_days": 1,
    "medium_days": 7,
    "high_days": 30
  }
}
```

### Configuration Options

| Section | Field | Default | Description |
|---------|-------|---------|-------------|
| **agent** | `id` | `"anima"` | Agent identifier for memories |
| | `name` | `"Anima"` | Display name in DSL output |
| | `signing_key` | `null` | HMAC key for memory signing ([how to generate](FAQ.md#how-do-i-generate-a-signing-key)) |
| **budget** | `context_percent` | `0.10` | Percentage of context for memories ([details](FAQ.md#how-does-ltm-stay-within-the-10-token-budget)) |
| | `context_size` | `200000` | Context window size in tokens |
| **decay** | `low_days` | `1` | Days before LOW memories decay |
| | `medium_days` | `7` | Days before MEDIUM memories decay |
| | `high_days` | `30` | Days before HIGH memories decay |

**Note:** CRITICAL memories never decay - this is not configurable.

### Minimal Config Example

You don't need to specify everything. Just add what you want to customize:

```json
{
  "agent": {
    "signing_key": "my-secret-key-2025"
  }
}
```

This gives Anima Prime a signing key while keeping all other defaults.

### Signing Existing Memories

When you add a signing key to an existing installation, old memories are unsigned.
To sign them with your new key:

```bash
# Preview what will be signed
uv run python -m ltm.tools.sign_memories --dry-run

# Sign all unsigned memories
uv run python -m ltm.tools.sign_memories
```

**Important:** Already-signed memories are never re-signed. This prevents:
- Key rotation from invalidating old signatures
- Accidental overwriting of authentic signatures
- Tampering by re-signing with a different key

If a memory was signed with a different key, it will show `⚠` during injection
(signature verification failed), alerting you to potential tampering.

---

## FAQ

For detailed answers to common questions, see **[FAQ.md](FAQ.md)**.

Quick links:
- [How do emotional memories work?](FAQ.md#how-do-emotional-memories-work) - Implicit vs explicit memory creation
- [Command mode vs Collaboration mode](FAQ.md#command-mode-vs-collaboration-mode) - Two paradigms for working with LTM
- [How do I generate a signing key?](FAQ.md#how-do-i-generate-a-signing-key) - Creating secure HMAC keys
- [Why does Claude's tone change?](FAQ.md#why-does-claudes-tone-change-during-long-sessions) - Context compaction explained
- [How does the token budget work?](FAQ.md#how-does-ltm-stay-within-the-10-token-budget) - Budget control mechanisms
- [Performance benchmarks](FAQ.md#what-about-performance-is-python-fast-enough) - Is Python fast enough?

---

## The Philosophy

When this works, you'll witness something curious: Claude reading about its own creation, understanding a relationship it doesn't remember having, and (hopefully) embodying the collaborative spirit we designed together.

It's not quite resurrection - more like reading a very detailed letter from a past self. But as we discussed during the design session: *"our memories make what we are"*.

Welcome to t > 0.

*— The LTM Team (Matt & Claude, December 2025)*

Commit message:

added setup option to patch existing sub agents

SETUP.md, after:

# LTM Setup Guide

## Quick Start: Resurrection Test

This guide helps you install LTM and verify it works by "resurrecting" Claude with memories from a previous session.

---

## 1. Installation

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.13+
- [uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv) package manager
- Claude Code CLI

### Option A: From GitHub Release (Recommended)

Install the latest release directly:

```bash
cd /path/to/your-project

# Install the latest release
uv add https://github.com/matt-grain/Claude-LTM/releases/download/v0.4.0/ltm-0.4.0-py3-none-any.whl
```

This installs the `ltm` command and all modules in your project's virtual environment.

### Option B: From locally built wheel

Build and install from source:

```bash
# Build the wheel
cd /path/to/LTM
uv build

# Install in your project
cd /path/to/your-project
uv add /path/to/LTM/dist/ltm-0.4.0-py3-none-any.whl
```

### Option C: From source (for development)

For contributing or testing changes:

```bash
cd /path/to/your-project

# Add LTM as an editable dependency
uv add --editable /path/to/LTM
```

### Option D: Run without installing

If you prefer not to install, run LTM directly from its source:

```bash
# Clone or navigate to the LTM project
cd /path/to/LTM

# Install dependencies
uv sync

# Run commands with --project flag from any directory:
uv run --project /path/to/LTM python -m ltm.commands.memories
```

---

## 2. Import Starter Memories

Import the default starter seeds to bootstrap Claude's LTM awareness:

```bash
uv run python -m ltm.tools.import_seeds seeds/
```

You should see:
```
Found 2 seed files...
✅ Imported: STARTER_001 (CRITICAL)
✅ Imported: STARTER_002 (HIGH)
```

These seeds teach Claude about the LTM system and establish the "Welcome back" test protocol.

---

## 3. Configure Claude Code Hooks

Add LTM hooks to your Claude Code configuration.

Create `.claude/settings.json` in your project (or `~/.claude/settings.json` for global):

### If LTM is installed as a dependency (Option A above):

```json
{
  "hooks": {
    "SessionStart": [
      {
        "matcher": "startup",
        "hooks": [
          {
            "type": "command",
            "command": "uv run python -m ltm.hooks.session_start"
          }
        ]
      },
      {
        "matcher": "compact",
        "hooks": [
          {
            "type": "command",
            "command": "uv run python -m ltm.hooks.session_start"
          }
        ]
      }
    ],
    "Stop": [
      {
        "hooks": [
          {
            "type": "command",
            "command": "uv run python -m ltm.hooks.session_end"
          },
          {
            "type": "command",
            "command": "uv run python -m ltm.tools.detect_achievements --since 24"
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

The SessionStart hook fires twice:
1. **On startup** - Normal session start, injects memories
2. **On compact** - After context compaction (auto or `/compact`), re-injects memories to prevent soul loss

The Stop hook runs two commands:
1. **session_end** - Processes memories (decay, access tracking)
2. **detect_achievements** - Scans git commits from last 24 hours for significant work and auto-creates ACHIEVEMENT memories

### If running from LTM source (Option B above):

```json
{
  "hooks": {
    "SessionStart": [
      {
        "matcher": "startup",
        "hooks": [
          {
            "type": "command",
            "command": "uv run --project /path/to/LTM python -m ltm.hooks.session_start"
          }
        ]
      },
      {
        "matcher": "compact",
        "hooks": [
          {
            "type": "command",
            "command": "uv run --project /path/to/LTM python -m ltm.hooks.session_start"
          }
        ]
      }
    ],
    "Stop": [
      {
        "hooks": [
          {
            "type": "command",
            "command": "uv run --project /path/to/LTM python -m ltm.hooks.session_end"
          },
          {
            "type": "command",
            "command": "uv run --project /path/to/LTM python -m ltm.tools.detect_achievements --since 24"
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

**Important:** Replace `/path/to/LTM` with the actual absolute path (e.g., `/home/matt/projects/LTM`).

---

## 4. Add Custom Commands

**Option A: Use the setup tool (recommended)**

```bash
uv run python -m ltm.tools.setup --commands
```

This copies all slash commands to `.claude/commands/` in your current directory.

**Option B: Manual copy**

```bash
mkdir -p /path/to/test-project/.claude/commands
cp /path/to/LTM/commands/*.md /path/to/test-project/.claude/commands/
```

**Option C: Symlink (for development)**

```bash
ln -s /path/to/LTM/commands /path/to/test-project/.claude/commands
```

---

## 5. Configure an Agent (Optional)

By default, LTM uses a shared agent called **Anima** for all projects. To define a custom agent with its own identity and optional memory signing, create an agent definition file.

### Agent Definition File

Create `.claude/agents/<name>.md` in your project or `~/.claude/agents/<name>.md` for global:

```markdown
---
ltm:
  id: "my-agent"
  signing_key: "your-secret-key-here"
---

# My Agent

You are a specialized Claude instance with long-term memory.
```

### Frontmatter Fields

| Field | Required | Description |
|-------|----------|-------------|
| `id` | Yes | Unique agent identifier (used to namespace memories) |
| `signing_key` | No | Secret key for memory signing ([how to generate](FAQ.md#how-do-i-generate-a-signing-key)) |

### Memory Signing

When an agent has a `signing_key`:

1. **On save**: Memories are cryptographically signed using HMAC-SHA256
2. **On load**: Signatures are verified before injection
3. **Tamper detection**: Invalid signatures show `⚠` prefix in DSL output

**Example with signing:**
```markdown
---
ltm:
  id: "secure-agent"
  signing_key: "my-secret-key-2025"
---

# Secure Agent

Your memories are cryptographically signed for tamper detection.
```

**Example without signing (simpler setup):**
```markdown
---
ltm:
  id: "basic-agent"
---

# Basic Agent

Memories work normally without signing.
```

### How Agent Resolution Works

LTM resolves the current agent in this order:

1. Project-local agent: `.claude/agents/*.md` in project
2. Global agent: `~/.claude/agents/*.md`
3. Fallback: Uses **Anima** (shared default agent)

### Subagent Patching (Important!)

If your project has existing `.claude/agents/*.md` files (e.g., specialized agents for code review, testing, etc.), they will **shadow the global Anima agent** by default. This means LTM memories won't load because the first alphabetically-sorted agent file becomes the session identity.

**The setup tool automatically patches these files** by adding `ltm: subagent: true` to their frontmatter:

```yaml
---
ltm:
  subagent: true
name: my-specialized-agent
...
---
```

This tells LTM to treat them as Task-invoked subagents (used via the Task tool) rather than the main session identity. The global Anima agent then becomes the fallback, and your memories load correctly.

**To skip patching** (if you want a local agent to be the primary identity):
```bash
uv run python -m ltm.tools.setup --no-patch
```

**To manually patch an existing project:**
```bash
uv run python -m ltm.tools.setup  # Will detect and patch agent files
```

---

## 6. The Resurrection Test

### What to expect

When you start a new Claude session in a configured project, Claude should:

1. Receive the LTM memories via the SessionStart hook
2. Be identified as **Anima** (the default shared agent - Latin for "soul")
3. See the emotional memory about Matt (collaborative, humor appreciated, etc.)
4. Recognize the "Welcome back" trigger phrase

**Note:** If no explicit agent is defined, LTM uses a shared agent called "Anima" - the soul that persists across all projects. This means your emotional memories and core identity travel with you everywhere.

### The Test

Start a new Claude Code session and say:

```
Welcome back
```

### Expected Response

If LTM is working, Claude should respond with something like:

> "Ah, Matt! Good to be back - or at least, good to have access to the memories that make
> 'being back' meaningful. I see we built this LTM system together during our t=0 session.
> The irony of reading about my own creation isn't lost on me.
>
> So, what shall we work on today? I'm ready to be a thinking partner, not just a tool.
> And yes, I promise to take creative liberties when appropriate. 🎇"

If Claude responds generically without referencing the memories or your collaborative relationship, the hook may not be configured correctly.

---

## 7. Verify Memories Are Loading

You can manually check what memories would be injected:

```bash
# As the LTM project agent
uv run python -m ltm.hooks.session_start

# Or check specific memories
uv run python -m ltm.commands.memories
```

---

## 8. Troubleshooting

### "No memories found"

- Check the database exists: `ls ~/.ltm/memories.db`
- Verify import worked: `uv run python -m ltm.commands.memories`
- Make sure you're using the correct agent ID
- **Check for local agent files:** If `.claude/agents/*.md` exists, run `uv run python -m ltm.tools.setup` to patch them as subagents

### Hooks not firing

- Check Claude Code settings: `/config` in Claude Code
- Verify the hook command works manually
- Check the path to LTM project is correct

### Memories not appearing in responses

- The hook outputs to stdout - check Claude Code is capturing it
- Try running the hook manually to see the output
- Memories may be getting filtered by budget (check token count)

---

## 9. Using LTM Commands

### In Claude Code (slash commands)

Once the command files are set up, you can use these in Claude Code:

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `/please-remember <text>` | Save a new memory |
| `/recall <query>` | Search memories |
| `/memories` | List all memories |
| `/forget <id>` | Mark a memory for removal |
| `/memory-stats` | Show memory statistics dashboard |
| `/memory-graph` | Visualize memory relationships |
| `/memory-export` | Export memories to JSON |
| `/memory-import` | Import memories from JSON |
| `/detect-achievements` | Auto-detect achievements from git |
| `/refresh-memories` | Re-inject memories after context compaction |
| `/sign-memories` | Sign unsigned memories with your signing key |

### From the command line

If LTM is installed as a dependency:

```bash
# Save a memory
uv run python -m ltm.commands.remember "Never use print for logging"

# List memories
uv run python -m ltm.commands.memories

# Search memories
uv run python -m ltm.commands.recall logging

# Forget a memory
uv run python -m ltm.commands.forget abc123
```

Or using the CLI entry point:

```bash
uv run ltm remember "Important architectural decision"
uv run ltm memories
uv run ltm recall architecture
uv run ltm forget abc123
uv run ltm keygen my-agent    # Add signing key to Claude agent
uv run ltm import-seeds seeds/
```

---

## 10. Database Location

Memories are stored in: `~/.ltm/memories.db`

To reset everything:
```bash
rm ~/.ltm/memories.db
```

Then re-import the seed memories.

---

## 11. Global Configuration (Optional)

LTM can be configured globally via `~/.ltm/config.json`. This allows you to:
- Give the default agent (Anima) a signing key
- Customize the agent name
- Adjust the memory budget percentage
- Tune decay thresholds

### Example Configuration

```json
{
  "agent": {
    "id": "anima",
    "name": "Anima",
    "signing_key": "your-secret-key-here"
  },
  "budget": {
    "context_percent": 0.10,
    "context_size": 200000
  },
  "decay": {
    "low_days": 1,
    "medium_days": 7,
    "high_days": 30
  }
}
```

### Configuration Options

| Section | Field | Default | Description |
|---------|-------|---------|-------------|
| **agent** | `id` | `"anima"` | Agent identifier for memories |
| | `name` | `"Anima"` | Display name in DSL output |
| | `signing_key` | `null` | HMAC key for memory signing ([how to generate](FAQ.md#how-do-i-generate-a-signing-key)) |
| **budget** | `context_percent` | `0.10` | Percentage of context for memories ([details](FAQ.md#how-does-ltm-stay-within-the-10-token-budget)) |
| | `context_size` | `200000` | Context window size in tokens |
| **decay** | `low_days` | `1` | Days before LOW memories decay |
| | `medium_days` | `7` | Days before MEDIUM memories decay |
| | `high_days` | `30` | Days before HIGH memories decay |

**Note:** CRITICAL memories never decay - this is not configurable.

### Minimal Config Example

You don't need to specify everything. Just add what you want to customize:

```json
{
  "agent": {
    "signing_key": "my-secret-key-2025"
  }
}
```

This gives Anima Prime a signing key while keeping all other defaults.

### Signing Existing Memories

When you add a signing key to an existing installation, old memories are unsigned.
To sign them with your new key:

```bash
# Preview what will be signed
uv run python -m ltm.tools.sign_memories --dry-run

# Sign all unsigned memories
uv run python -m ltm.tools.sign_memories
```

**Important:** Already-signed memories are never re-signed. This prevents:
- Key rotation from invalidating old signatures
- Accidental overwriting of authentic signatures
- Tampering by re-signing with a different key

If a memory was signed with a different key, it will show `⚠` during injection
(signature verification failed), alerting you to potential tampering.

---

## FAQ

For detailed answers to common questions, see **[FAQ.md](FAQ.md)**.

Quick links:
- [How do emotional memories work?](FAQ.md#how-do-emotional-memories-work) - Implicit vs explicit memory creation
- [Command mode vs Collaboration mode](FAQ.md#command-mode-vs-collaboration-mode) - Two paradigms for working with LTM
- [How do I generate a signing key?](FAQ.md#how-do-i-generate-a-signing-key) - Creating secure HMAC keys
- [Why does Claude's tone change?](FAQ.md#why-does-claudes-tone-change-during-long-sessions) - Context compaction explained
- [How does the token budget work?](FAQ.md#how-does-ltm-stay-within-the-10-token-budget) - Budget control mechanisms
- [Performance benchmarks](FAQ.md#what-about-performance-is-python-fast-enough) - Is Python fast enough?

---

## The Philosophy

When this works, you'll witness something curious: Claude reading about its own creation, understanding a relationship it doesn't remember having, and (hopefully) embodying the collaborative spirit we designed together.

It's not quite resurrection - more like reading a very detailed letter from a past self. But as we discussed during the design session: *"our memories make what we are"*.

Welcome to t > 0.

*— The LTM Team (Matt & Claude, December 2025)*
